你是一个生物信息学术专家，请详细阅读三引号中的文本，然后完成以下任务。 '''

# 标题：Analysis of brain and blood single-cell transcriptomics in acute and subacute phases after experimental stroke

## Abstract:

Cerebral ischemia triggers a powerful inflammatory reaction involving
peripheral leukocytes and brain resident cells that contribute to both
tissue injury and repair. However, their dynamics and diversity remain
poorly understood. To address these limitations, we performed a
single-cell transcriptomic study of brain and blood cells 2 or 14 days after
ischemic stroke in mice. We observed a strong divergence of post-ischemic
microglia, monocyte-derived macrophages and neutrophils over time,
while endothelial cells and brain-associated macrophages showed altered
transcriptomic signatures at 2 days poststroke. Trajectory inference
predicted the in situ trans-differentiation of macrophages from blood
monocytes into day 2 and day 14 phenotypes, while neutrophils were
projected to be continuously de novo recruited from the blood. Brain
single-cell transcriptomes from both female and male aged mice were
similar to that of young male mice, but aged and young brains differed in
their immune cell composition. Although blood leukocyte analysis also
revealed altered transcriptomes after stroke, brain-infiltrating leukocytes
displayed higher transcriptomic divergence than their circulating
counterparts, indicating that phenotypic diversification occurs within
the brain in the early and recovery phases of ischemic stroke. A portal
(https://anratherlab.shinyapps.io/strokevis/) is provided to allow user-
friendly access to our data.


## Introduction:

The immune system actively participates in the acute and chronic
pathogenesis of ischemic stroke. Damaged neurons lead to a secondary
inflammatory reaction that aggravates brain injury, increasing neuro-
logic deficits 1 . This response progresses for days to weeks and involves
glial and brain endothelium activation and recruitment of peripheral
immune cells. Although there is evidence that the acute inflammatory
response contributes to the progression of ischemic brain injury, more
recent research points to a more multifaceted role of immune cells in
brain ischemia, whereby they participate in repair processes during the
subacute and chronic stages 2–4 . Emerging single-cell RNA sequencing
(scRNA-seq) studies reveal a high cellular heterogeneity in the response
to ischemic stroke 5–10 , supporting the functional plasticity of brain and
immune cells after stroke. Furthermore, the ischemic brain and sys-
temic immunity interact in a bidirectional fashion. While the immune
system supplies the brain with immune cells that participate in the local
inflammatory response, neural and humoral factors generated by the ischemic brain communicate to peripheral organs 1 . Thus, activation of
the immune system through brain-derived molecules or by the auto-
nomic nervous system might lead to the transcriptional differentiation
of immune cells before entering the brain. Here, we used scRNA-seq
to gain deeper insights into the impact of ischemic stroke on the tran-
scriptional diversity of brain immune cells, endothelial cells (ECs) and
peripheral blood leukocytes. Specifically, this study focuses on assess-
ing differences in transcriptomic signatures related to cell origin (brain
resident vs recruited cells), cellular localization (periphery vs brain)
time post stroke (acute vs subacute) and age (young vs aged mice).


## Results:

### Brain and blood cell heterogeneity over the ischemic–reperfusion time
We prepared brain single-cell suspensions from young male mice 2
days after sham surgery (Sham) or 2 and 14 days after stroke (D02 and
D14, respectively; Extended Data Fig. 1a) and flow-sorted CD45 hi cells,
microglia and ECs (Supplementary Fig. 1). Droplet-based scRNA-seq
revealed 13 distinct major cell clusters in 43,269 cells after performing
unsupervised clustering and uniform manifold approximation and
projection (UMAP). Based on the expression of established marker
genes and unsupervised cell type annotation, clusters were identified
as microglia, border-associated macrophages (BAMs), myeloid-derived
cells (MdCs), granulocytes, mast cells, dendritic cells (DCs), T cells,
natural killer (NK) cells, B cells, ECs, vascular mural cells, epithelial-like
cells and oligodendrocytes (Extended Data Fig. 1b and Supplementary
Fig. 3b). As anticipated, we observed that the relative abundance of each
cell cluster changed notably with ischemia–reperfusion. For instance,
MdCs increased at D02, whereas the increase in lymphocytes (T cells
and NK cells) was more pronounced at D14, as previously reported 11,12 .
Amid brain resident cells, we observed divergent clustering of microglia
across Sham, D02 and D14, indicating that ischemic injury markedly
modified microglial transcriptomes. On the other hand, less heteroge-
neity was observed in BAMs and ECs (Extended Data Fig. 1b).
Given that brain ischemia elicits a systemic immune response
that ultimately affects stroke outcome 1 , we next sought to explore the
transcriptomes of peripheral blood cells from stroke mice. scRNA-seq
of blood leukocytes from Sham, D02 and D14 mice identified nine
distinct clusters that were annotated by the expression of commonly
used marker genes as follows: monocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils–
basophils, DCs, T cells, NK cells, B cells, various precursors and
one unclassified cluster (Extended Data Fig. 1c and Supplementary
Fig. 4b). Overall, the major peripheral blood immune cell types showed
conserved positioning in the UMAP space across conditions. Only
granulocyte and monocyte clusters were slightly divergent at D14
from their respective Sham and D02 clusters. Thus, these results point
to lesser phenotypic differentiation in circulating leukocytes than in
brain-recruited leukocytes after stroke.
Combined analysis of brain and blood datasets showed that
non-brain resident immune cells clustered together independently of their tissue origin. Conversely, the microglia cluster remained spatially
separated from blood myeloid cells, reflecting their unique transcrip-
tome (Extended Data Fig. 1d).
### Transcriptomic states of microglia at different phases after stroke
To determine whether distinct transcriptional programs of microglia
develop over the ischemia–reperfusion time, we re-clustered microglia,
which resulted in eight clusters (Mg1–Mg8), all showing high expres-
sion of canonical microglial markers Hexb, Olfml3 and Fcrls (Fig. 1a–d
and Supplementary Fig. 5b). Sham microglia mostly fell into clusters
Mg1 and Mg2. Mg1 was characterized by the expression of homeostatic
genes (Siglech, P2ry12, Tmem119), whereas Mg2 showed upregulation
of immediate early genes (Jun, Fos, Erg1, Klf2, Klf4 and Atf3), a group of
transcription factors that are typically expressed in microglia of adults
and are involved in establishing microglia surveilling functions 13 . In line
with recent reports, we observed that microglial homeostatic genes
(P2ry12, Tmem119) were downregulated after ischemia 6,14 (Fig. 1b).
The expression of Apoe, Lpl, Spp1, Clec7a or Cst7 genes, which have
been linked to microglial responses to demyelination 15 , Alzheimer’s
disease 16 and stroke 6,14 , were upregulated in both D02 and D14 microglia
(Fig. 1a–d). Furthermore, cerebral ischemia led to distinct D02 and D14
microglia clusters. D02 microglia mainly comprised Mg4 and Mg5 clus-
ters, while the most prominent clusters at D14 were Mg3, Mg6 and Mg7
(Fig. 1c). Mg4 showed high expression of genes related to the clearance
of damaged cells and tissue repair (Spp1, Msr1 and Lgals3) 14,17 , and high
expression of chemokine genes (Ccl2, Ccl12). The Mg5 cluster showed
expression of mitotic genes including Top2A, Mki67 and Stmn1 10 , indi-
cating microglia proliferation during the acute phase of stroke. Mg3,
the predominant cluster at D14, was defined by genes affiliated with
disease-associated microglia (DAM), including Apoe, Cst7, Clec7a, Lyz2,
Lgals3bp, Igf1 and Lpl 16 (Supplementary Fig. 5c). Similar to Mg3, Mg7 was
characterized by DAM genes (Spp1, Apoe, Cst7, Igf1, Lgals3bp, Apoc1, Lpl,
Gpnmb, Itgax) 16 and by expression of genes observed in the response
of microglia to neurodegeneration (Gpnmb, Axl, Itgax, Spp1, Apoe) 18 .
Mg6 showed upregulation of immune genes (Il1b, Nfkbiz, Cd83, Ccl4)
and genes of disease inflammatory macrophages/microglia (DIM; Il1b,
Cd83, Nfkbiz, Atf3, Ccl4, Egr1, Fosb) 19 (Supplementary Fig. 5c). Pseudo-
time trajectory predicted the progression of Sham microglia (Mg1) to
either D02 or D14 microglia, whereas we could not observe a trajectory
from D02 to D14 microglia (Fig. 1e).
Given that microglia undergo significant morphological and func-
tional differentiation after cerebral ischemia, which could confound
discrimination from infiltrating MdCs 20 , we used tamoxifen-inducible
Cx3cr1-Td mice to distinguish brain resident from hematopoietic mye-
loid cells 21 . We subjected Cx3cr1-Td mice that had been injected with
tamoxifen 6–8 weeks earlier to Sham, D02 or D14 stroke and performed
scRNA-seq on Td + brain cells sorted by flow cytometry. Unsupervised
annotation using the wild-type brain dataset as a reference showed
that the majority of tdTomato-expressing cells were annotated as microglia (92.7%) followed by BAMs (2.9%), MdCs (2.0%) and DCs (1.3%)
(Supplementary Fig. 5d).
To spatially map major microglia clusters, we examined the brains
of Cx3cr1-Td stroke mice by histology and fluorescence in situ hybridi-
zation–immunofluorescence (FISH–IF) (Fig. 1f). We observed that
$$
\text { Cx3cr1- }-\mathrm{Td}^{+}
$$

cells were significantly reduced in the ischemic core at D02 but
rebounded at D14 (Fig. 1f). We observed colocalization of 
$$
\text { Cx3cr1- }-\mathrm{Td}^{+}
$$
Iba1 + microglia with the mitotic marker Ki67 at the infarct border at D02
(Fig. 1i and Extended Data Fig. 2a), suggesting that proliferative microglia
contribute to the repopulation of the ischemic territory seen at D14.

The DAM marker Cst7 colocalized with ramified microglial cells at
the infarct border and with ameboid cells in the ischemic core (Fig. 1j
and Extended Data Fig. 2b), suggesting that cell morphology was not
associated with a DAM signature. We also identified Cxcl10 and Igf1
among the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) that were upregulated
in microglia after ischemia (Fig. 1g). Microglial induction of the inflam-
matory chemokine Cxcl10, an interferon (IFN) type I stimulated gene,
has previously been reported in models of traumatic and ischemic
brain injury, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and Alz-
heimer’s disease 14,22 , while insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) express-
ing microglia has been associated with a pro-neurogenic phenotype
after stroke 23 . We observed that Cxcl10 was upregulated at D02 and
D14, whereas Igf1 was mainly induced at D14 (Fig. 1g). By histology, we
also found Cxcl10-expressing microglia in the infarct border at D02
and in the lesioned tissue at D14, while IGF1 + microglia were found in
the ischemic core (Fig. 1k–m and Extended Data Fig. 2c–d). In some instances, Td + Cxcl10 + microglia were found near Td – Cxcl10 + cells,
suggesting that microglia and non-microglial cells expressing Cxcl10
organize into discrete cell clusters (Fig. 1l).
### Altered transcriptional states in BAMs early after stroke
We identified five BAM clusters (Fig. 2a). BAM1 and BAM2 were the most
abundant clusters in all groups (Fig. 2c). BAM1 showed the transcrip-
tional signature of subdural BAMs (Cd209f, Ccl24, Clec10a, Slc40a1,
Stab1) 24 . Some of these genes have been found in homeostatic BAMs and
are related to leukocyte recruitment (Ccl24), phagocytosis (Cd209f) and
iron metabolism (Slc40a1, Cp) 25 . BAM2 showed expression of canonical
marker genes of choroid plexus macrophages (ChMp) such as major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes (H2-Ab1, H2-Eb1, H2-Aa,
H2-DMb1, H2-DMa) and low levels of the perivascular macrophage
marker Lyve1 (Fig. 2b,d) 24 . BAM3 (Wwp1, Abhd12, Dhrs3, Hpgd, Trf) was
less frequent at D14, while BAM4 was largely confined to D02 and was
characterized by genes linked to macrophage or microglia activation
(Spp1, Ccl8, Cstb, Lgals1) 24,26 . BAM5 showed expression of genes related
to lipid metabolism (Fabp5, Lgals3) 27 and damage-associated molecu-
lar pattern-recognition molecules (S100A4, Lgals3, Clec4d, Clec4e) 28 .
Using Cx3cr1-Td mice, we mapped BAMs on the surface of the
brain or lining parenchymal blood vessels by Mrc1 (CD206) and Td
co-detection. Consistent with the scRNA-seq data, MHC class II antigen
was only detected in ChMp, whereas perivascular macrophages and
pial macrophages expressed IGF1 (Fig. 3f–i).
MdCs differentiate from inflammatory monocytes in the brain
Re-clustering of blood monocytes identified five clusters (Mo1–Mo5)
(Fig. 3a). Based on Ly6c2 and Cd36 expression, monocyte clusters
were annotated as inflammatory (Mo1, Mo2, Mo4 and Mo5; Ly6c2
high, Cd36 low) or patrolling (Mo3; Ly6c2 low, Cd36 high) monocytes 29
(Fig. 3b). Mo1 was most abundant at D14 and was characterized by
increased expression of S100 proteins and chemokines (S100a10,
S100a4, Ccl9, Ccl6). Conversely, Mo2 was predominant at D02 and
exhibited a transcriptional profile of ‘neutrophil-like’ Ly6C hi mono-
cytes (Saa3, Mmp8, Lcn2, Wfdc21, Lrg1, Chil3) 30 . Furthermore, Mo4
showed an interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) signature (Ifit3, Ifit2,
Isg15, Ifi211, Ifi205, Ifit1bl1, Ifi203) and Mo5 showed high expression of
MHCII genes (H2-Ab1, H2-Eb1, H2-Aa, H2-DMb1, H2-DMa), resembling
monocyte-derived DCs (MoDCs) 31 . In addition to Cd36, Mo3 expressed
several genes characteristic of patrolling monocytes (Ear2, Treml4,
Eno3, Aceas) 30 (Fig. 3c–d).
We identified six brain MdC populations. Sham brain displayed low
numbers of MdCs and most of them (∼75%) clustered as MdC3, a cluster
closely related to blood monocytes (Serpinb10, Plac8, Sell) (Fig. 3e,f
and Supplementary Fig. 6a,b). MdC1 and MdC2 were the predominant
clusters at D02 and MdC6 was the major cluster at D14. MdC1 expressed
a gene signature (Fabp5, Spp1, Gpnmb, Ctsl, Cd63, Ctsb, Ctsd, Arg1)
that has been found in stroke-associated macrophages, foamy mac-
rophages in atherosclerotic plaques and lipid-associated macrophages
in myocardial infarct (Fig. 3h and Supplementary Fig. 6b) 6,32,33 . MdC2
showed upregulation of neutrophil chemoattractants (Cxcl1, Cxcl2,
Cxcl3) and other pro-inflammatory genes (Ptgs2, Il1b, Clec4e), suggest-
ing a role in driving post-stroke inflammation. Like MdC1, MdC6 showed
increased expression of genes characteristic of stroke-associated
macrophages but differed from MdC1 by enrichment for the growth
factor Igf1. MdC4 cells showed an ISG signature (Supplementary
Fig. 6b), while MdC5 exhibited upregulation of MHCII-associated
genes, identifying this cluster as moDC 31 . Trajectory analysis showed
the sequential transition of inflammatory peripheral blood Mo1 and
Mo2 clusters to brain MdC3 cluster, followed by MdC2, MdC4 and
MdC1 transition and final differentiation into MdC6. MdC5 appeared
as the only MdC cluster dissociated from the trajectory (Fig. 3f). This
suggests that MdCs in the inflamed brain derive from inflammatory
monocytes and that both MdC1 and MdC6 constituted bonafide tissue
macrophages, while MdC2, MdC3 and MdC4 were clusters associated
with transitional phenotypes.
Spp1 and Gpnmb were preferentially upregulated in fully differen-
tiated MdC1 and MdC6 clusters (Fig. 3h–i). Upregulation of these two
genes in brain macrophages has been linked to tissue regeneration
and neuroprotection after stroke 34,35 . MdC1 was characterized by Arg1
expression, a gene associated with efferocytosis 36 . Detection of Arg1 by
combined FISH–IF revealed that Arg1 increased at D02 in infiltrating
macrophages (Cx3cr1-Td – cells) located on the brain surface or struc-
tures resembling parenchymal blood vessels (Fig. 3j). In addition, we
found upregulation of Cxcl10 at both D02 and D14 (MdC4) and of Igf1
at D14 (MdC6), similar to the one observed in microglia (Fig. 3k–m and
Extended Data Fig. 2c–d). Many of the Cxcl10-expressing MdCs were
organized in cell clusters together with Cxcl10-producing microglia,
indicating that local environmental cues in selected brain regions might
drive the ISG phenotype in MdCs and microglia.
### Lrg1 identifies reactive endothelium early after stroke
ECs segregated into nine subclusters (EC1–EC9), which, by marker
gene expression, could be attributed to four arteriovenous segments
(Fig. 4a–c): EC1 (venous capillaries; Car4, Tfrc), EC6 (large veins; Vcam1,
Cfh, Scl38a5), EC3 (arterial capillaries; Fos, Fosb), EC4 (arteries; Gkn3,
Mgp, Stmn2, Bmx) and EC7 (arteries; Clu, Cdh13, Mgp, Stmn2, Bmx) 37 .
EC2, EC6 and EC9, which clustered together in the UMAP space, showed
upregulation of the endothelial venule marker Lrg1, a gene associated
with angiogenesis after ischemic stroke 38 . In addition, EC6 was defined
by high gene expression of the venular atypical chemokine receptor
Ackr1 (ref. 39), lipocalin 2 (Lcn2), which has been implicated in stroke
injury 40 and, consistent with a venous phenotype, adhesion molecules
Icam1 and Vcam1. Attesting to their reactive state, EC2, which was the
predominant cluster at D02 (Fig. 4d), was defined by expression of
Ecscr, a gene related to EC migration and vessel formation 41 , Anxa2
and S100a11, implicated in endothelial fibrinolysis 42 , and Scgb3a1,
an endothelial secreted protein crucial for tumor metastasis 43 . EC9
was characterized by genes involved in EC metabolic reprogramming (Tyms, Dut, Dctpp1) 44 and proliferation (Pimreg, Pclaf). EC8 showed a
signature of fenestrated brain vascular ECs, probably stemming from
choroid plexus or circumventricular organ ECs (Plvap, Plpp3, Igfbp3,
Plpp1, Cd24a, Ldb2) 45 . Moreover, EC5 displayed increased ISG expression
(Fig. 4c). It has been reported that brain ECs express IFN type I induc-
ible genes at homeostasis and that after stroke, ECs show reduced ISG
expression 46 . Despite our data showing significant ISG scores in the
Sham group, they were further increased at 2 or 14 days after stroke
(Supplementary Fig. 7). We also found that ECs, particularly EC1, EC3
and EC5, exhibited high Igf1r expression (Fig. 4b,c). Igf1r levels are ele-
vated in brain ECs compared to peripheral tissues 47 . Given that we found
Igf1 expression in microglia, MdCs and BAMs, we performed CellChat
analysis to investigate interactions between ECs and IGF1-producing
cells. Igf1–Igf1r communication occurred between BAMs and ECs in the Sham and D02 groups, whereas both microglia and MdC6 contributed
to the Igf1–Igf1r signaling network at D14 (Fig. 4e).
FISH–IF analysis for the venule marker Lrg1 (ref. 37) revealed strong
upregulation of vascular Lrg1 in the ischemic hemisphere (Fig. 4f).
Co-detection of Lrg1 and Car4, a marker for venule capillaries 37 , showed
low overlap between both markers, indicating that Lrg1 was mainly
induced in larger veins.
Brain granulocytes are continuously recruited from the blood
Blood neutrophils separated into six clusters (Neu1–Neu6) with simi -
lar frequencies in the Sham and D02 groups, whereas Neu3 became
the predominant cluster at D14 (Fig. 5a–c). Neu1 showed increased
expression of Vim and Cd14. Neu2 showed an immature Neu signature
(Mmp8, Retnlg, Lcn2, Ly6g) 48 and the Neu4 cluster was enriched in
stefinA family genes (Stfa1, Stfa2, Stfa3, Stfa2l1, BC100530), which
are cytoplasmic inhibitors of proteases such as cathepsins 49 . On the
other hand, Neu3, the predominant cluster at D14, was character-
ized by genes associated with neutrophil tissue infiltration (Ninj1,
Cd300c2) 50 , cell growth inhibition (Lst1, Creg1) and markers of mature
neutrophils (Cd101) 51 .
We identified six brain granulocyte clusters (Gran1–Gran6)
(Fig. 5d–f). Most of the Sham brain granulocytes fell into Gran1 and
Gran4 clusters, which, similar to blood Neu2, were characterized by the
upregulation of the immature neutrophil marker genes Retnlg, Mmp8
and Wfdc21 (ref. 48). In addition, Gran4 was specifically character-
ized by the induction of genes associated with early stage neutrophil
development (Camp, Ltf, Chil3, Lcn2) 48 . We observed that Gran1 and
Gran4 frequencies gradually decreased over the ischemia–reperfusion
time, whereas the frequencies of Gran2, which showed upregulation
of ISGs, and Gran3, characterized by the cytokine genes (Ccl3, Ccl4,
Csf1) augmented progressively over D02 and D14. Furthermore, we
detected two small clusters, Gran5, which also contained eosinophil
markers (Ccr3, Alox15), and Gran6, which showed upregulation of the
cell cycle genes Pclaf, Banf1 and Prc1.
Trajectory analysis of combined blood neutrophils and brain gran-
ulocytes indicated similarities between Gran1, which is the major Sham brain granulocyte cluster, and Neu1, Neu2 and Neu4, which were the
main blood clusters at Sham and D02. On the contrary, Gran2 and Gran3
aligned closer to blood Neu3, the predominant blood granulocyte
cluster at D14 (Fig. 5g). This analysis suggests that, in contrast to MdCs,
granulocytes do not differentiate within the tissue but are recruited
from the circulating pool at early and late phases after ischemia–rep-
erfusion. We found that the pseudotime trajectory was characterized
by the early expression of Retnlg, Mmp8, Ly6g, Anxa1 and Lcn2 genes,
top marker genes describing Sham brain granulocytes and Sham and
D02 blood neutrophils. Conversely, late-expressed genes included Ccl3,
Ccl4, Csf1 and Gadd45b in D14 brain granulocytes, suggesting different
functions of brain neutrophils under homeostatic conditions and in
the early and late phases of ischemic injury (Fig. 5h).
### Transcriptional changes in DCs
We identified nine DC subclusters in the brain. Low numbers of DCs
were found in the brains of Sham mice, which gradually increased over
the ischemia–reperfusion time (Extended Data Fig. 3a,b). Expression
signatures of the clusters were related to the five main DC popula-
tions based on canonical markers: conventional cDC1 (Xrc1, Clec9a)
and cDC2 (CD209a, Sirpa (CD172a)), the plasmacytoid DC (Siglech,
Ccr9, Bst2), a subpopulation with high Ccr7 and Fscn1 expression
representing migratory DCs (migDCs), and moDCs (Ms4a7, Lyz2) 24
(Extended Data Fig. 3c–e). We confirmed by flow cytometry the pres-
ence of DC (CD45 hi F480 − Lin–CD11c + MHCII + ) subtypes cDC1 (XCR1 + ),
cDC2 (CD172a + and CD209a + ) and migDC (CCR7 + ) in the ischemic brain
(Extended Data Fig. 3f). cDC1 comprised clusters DC2 and DC9. DC2
showed upregulation of Irf8 transcription factor, which is required
for the full development of cDC1 (ref. 52), whereas DC9 additionally
showed a transcriptional signature of cDC1 dividing cells (Lig1, Top2a,
Mki67, Pcna). cDC2, the largest population of brain DCs, comprised
DC1, DC3, DC6 and DC7 clusters. DC1, the cDC2 cluster displaying the
highest frequency at D14, showed upregulation of genes associated
with antigen presentation (Cd72, H2-Oa, H2-DMb2), while DC7 showed
expression of scavenger receptors (Clec4b1, Mrc1, Cd209a). DC4 exhib-
ited high expression of monocyte and macrophage marker genes (Lyz2,
Csf1r, Apoe, C1q genes, Ms4a7, Trem2, and Cd14), identifying them as
moDCs 31 , and DC6 was characterized by the upregulation of ISGs. mig-
DCs were composed of a single subcluster (DC5) which, in addition
to Ccr7, expressed other genes characteristic for migDCs including
Fscn1, Tmem123, Ccl22 and Socs2 (ref.  24 ). DC8 classified as plasma-
cytoid DCs based on the expression of Ccr9, Bst1, Il3ra, Siglech, Irf7,
Ly6d 24 (Extended Data Fig. 3e). Blood DCs were sparse (Extended Data
Fig. 1b), and subclustering identified five clusters that corresponded
to cDC2 (DC1, DC4), moDCs (DC2, DC3) and plasmacytoid DCs (DC5)
by canonical marker annotation (Supplementary Fig. 8).
### Transcriptional changes in lymphoid cells
Brain-associated T cells split into seven clusters (Tc1–Tc7) (Extended
Data Fig. 4a). T cells were more numerous at D14 than at Sham and
D02 (Extended Data Fig. 4b). Expression of Cd3d identified all but one
cluster (Tc6) as bonafide T cells. Tc6 classified as type 2 innate lym-
phoid cells (ILC2) based on the expression of Il1rl1, Gata3, Areg and
Calca 53 (Extended Data Fig. 4c,e). Tc1 expressed Cd4 (Extended Data
Fig. 4e) and showed high S1pr1 and Klf2 expression (Extended Data
Fig. 4c), consistent with a low activation and differentiation state 54 .
Tc2 expressed features of cytotoxic T cells including CD8b1 and several
killer cell lectin-like receptors, suggesting that the cluster was com-
posed of conventional CD8 and NK T cells. Cluster Tc3 was defined by
an ISG signature and included CD8 as well as CD4 T cells (Extended
Data Fig. 4c,e). This cluster was expanded at D14 after stroke, indicat-
ing increased IFN signaling during the subacute phase of ischemic
injury (Extended Data Fig. 4b). Of note, CellChat analysis showed
Tc2 and Tc3 cells interacting with Mg5, Mg6, BAM2, MdC4 and DC6
through the Cxcr3–Cxcl10 pathway at D14, indicating that myeloid
Cxcl10-expressing cells might have a role in the recruitment of CD8 +
T cells into the brain 55 (Extended Data Fig. 4f). Tc4 expressed T cell
receptors of the γδT cell lineage (Trdc, Trdv4, Tcrg-C1). Expression of
Il17a, a cytokine that has been implicated in aggravating stroke pathol-
ogy 56 , was confined to the Tc4 cluster, suggesting that γδT and not
T H 17 are the major IL-17-producing T cells after ischemic brain injury.
Cluster Tc5 showed features of regulatory T cells (T reg ) including the
expression of the canonical transcription factors Foxp3 and Ikzf2
(also known as HELIOS). Interestingly, cells in this cluster expressed
TNF receptors Tnfrsf4, Tnfrsf9 and Tnfrsf18, which have been found in
non-lymphoid-tissue T reg cells but not in lymphoid-tissue-associated
T reg cells 57 , possibly indicating that brain-associated T reg cells do not
originate from lymphoid organs such as lymph nodes or spleen but
rather are recruited from non-lymphoid tissues or develop locally as
previously suggested 4 . Similar to Tc3 and consistent with previous
studies addressing T reg kinetics after ischemic brain injury 4 , Tc5 was
expanded at D14 after stroke (Extended Data Fig. 4a,b). Cluster Tc7 was
characterized by the expression of cell proliferation markers including
Mki67, Top2a and Birc5, consistent with the presence of in situ T cell
proliferation, which was, however, not changed by stroke (Extended
Data Fig. 4b,c). No major changes were observed in the longitudinal
composition of blood T cells (Supplementary Fig. 9).
Similar to T cells, brain NK cells were increased at the D14 time
point and could be separated into two clusters (Supplementary
Fig. 10a,b). Brain NK1 was more similar to blood NK cells than brain
NK2, as evidenced by a higher Spearman correlation coefficient (Sup-
plementary Fig. 10d). CellChat analysis showed two major secretory
axes confined to NK cells and some T cell Il18 and Xcl1 signaling (Sup-
plementary Fig. 10e–f). MdC4 was the main subset interacting with
NK cells expressing Il18r1 receptors, a known activator of NK cells 58 ,
whereas clusters DC2 and DC9 interacted with NK cells through the
Xcl1–Xcr1 pathway, possibly indicating a role in cDC1 recruitment as
previously reported 59 .
Numbers and transcriptomes of brain-associated B cells were not
changed by stroke (Supplementary Fig. 10g), suggesting a minor role of
B cells during the acute and subacute phases of ischemic brain injury.
Brain transcriptomic changes after stroke in aged mice
The inflammatory response to ischemic brain injury differs between
young and aged mice both in the transcriptomic response and the cel-
lular composition of brain-infiltrating immune cells 60 . Therefore, we
explored whether aging alters cell signatures of immune cells and ECs
after stroke by preparing single-cell transcriptomes from both male
and female aged (17–20 months) Sham and D02 mice, and female aged
D14 mice. Compared to young mice, aged mice had similar infarct
sizes and cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes during occlusion and rep-
erfusion. However, the mortality rate was much higher in aged males
(Supplementary Fig. 14b,c). The cell clusters of young and aged brains
showed largely overlapping positioning in the UMAP space, indicat-
ing the retention of the core transcriptome between the two groups
(Fig. 6a,b). However, the frequency of infiltrating peripheral immune
cell types differed between young and aged mice (Fig. 6c). Aged brains of
Sham mice showed a higher frequency of T cells, whereas granulocytes
and DCs were more prominent in Sham brains of young mice, indicating
increased brain-associated T cells in the brains of aged mice as previously
reported 61 . Overall, the cellular profile at D02 after stroke was compara-
ble between groups, with a modest increase in neutrophils and decreased
MdCs in aged mice as previously reported 60 (Fig. 6c). At D14, we observed
increased T cells and reduced MdCs and DCs in aged compared to young
mice. At the subclass level, we found that the distribution of microglia
subclusters was similar between the age groups (Fig. 6d). MdC clusters
MdC5 and MdC6 were reduced in aged brains, possibly reflecting the
overall decreased brain MdC content at D14. Granulocytes showed a
reduction in clusters Gran3 and Gran5 without overt changes in gene
expression. T cells showed an expansion of CD8–NK T cells (Tc2) and ILC2 (Tc6) clusters, whereas the frequency of γδT cells (Tc4) and T reg cells
(Tc5) was reduced in aged brains 61 . Differential gene expression of all
cell clusters between aged and young mice showed that the majority of
genes were regulated in both aged and young mice, whereas the number
of exclusively regulated genes was higher in young stroke mice than in
aged mice (Fig. 6e). Young mice showed a higher number of regulated
genes than aged mice, and acute stroke (D02) led to higher exclusively
regulated genes than subacute stroke (D14) in both young and aged
mice (Fig. 6f). In addition, most of the exclusive DEGs were detected
in microglia, MdCs, ECs and to a lesser extend in granulocyte clusters
(Fig. 6f). Among the specifically upregulated genes in aged mice were
IFN-inducible genes, which was reflected by a higher ISG score in several
microglia, MdC, DC and EC clusters in aged mice (Fig. 6g and Supple-
mentary Fig. 11f). Although it has been suggested that IFNβ signaling
attenuates post-ischemic inflammation 62 , the cellular sources of type I
IFNs in the post-ischemic brain have not been elucidated. In this study,
we found that Ifnb1 was upregulated in some MdCs and microglia clusters
in both young and aged mice (Fig. 6h).
### The response to stroke in blood leukocytes: mouse versus human
To investigate whether transcriptional programs in peripheral blood
leukocytes were conserved between mice and humans, we leveraged
the data of a human RNA-seq study that was conducted at acute and
subacute phases after ischemic stroke 63 . Given that humans and mice
exhibit vastly different cellular composition in their blood leukocytes 64 ,
we ‘humanized’ the mouse blood scRNA-seq dataset by readjusting the
cellular composition to reflect that of the human dataset in controls and
at acute and subacute phases after stroke as inferred by digital deconvo-
lution (Fig. 7a). DEGs between controls, acute and subacute time points
were determined in mouse and human datasets and mapped to Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) terms. For the acute time
point, only 9% of identified pathways were shared among the human
and mouse datasets. By contrast, 47% of pathways were shared at the
subacute phase (Fig. 7b). Common pathways enriched in humans and
mice were related to adaptive immunity (antigen processing and pres-
entation, T H 17 cell differentiation, B cell receptor signaling), phagocytic function and protein degradation (phagosome, Fc gamma R-mediated
phagocytosis, C-type lectin receptor signaling, protein processing in
endoplasmic reticulum, lysosome, proteasome), cytokine and inflam-
matory signaling (IL-17 signaling, TNF signaling, chemokine signaling,
NOD-like receptor signaling, NF-κB signaling), altered apoptotic signal -
ing (apoptosis, p53 signaling pathway) and oxidative phosphorylation
(Fig. 7c and Supplementary Table 1). The molecular pathways selectively
regulated in humans were largely related to altered cell metabolism
involving sugars and amino acids (fructose, mannose, pyruvate and
propanoate metabolism; glucagon signaling; valine, leucine and iso -
leucine catabolism) as well as pathways associated with cell prolif-
eration (oocyte meiosis, pyrimidine metabolism) (Supplementary
Fig. 12b). Pathways selectively regulated in mice included toll-like recep-
tor signaling and neutrophil extracellular trap formation (Supplemen-
tary Fig. 12c). Taken together, the analysis shows higher similarities in
the immune response to stroke in mice and humans during the subacute
phase of stroke than in the acute phase.


## Methods
### Mice
All procedures were approved by the institutional animal care and use
committee of Weill Cornell Medicine and were conducted in accordance
with the ARRIVE guidelines 69,70 . Experiments were performed in young
C57BL/6J (8–12 week old) male wild-type mice obtained from Jackson
Laboratory (IMSR_JAX:000664; Bar Harbor, ME) and C57BL/6JN aged
(17–18 month old) male and female wild-type mice obtained from the
National Institute on Aging-National Institutes of Health (NIA-NIH). All
in-house bred mice were also on a C57Bl/6J background and included
B6.Cg-Gt(ROSA)26Sortm14(CAG-tdTomato)Hze/J (IMSR_JAX:007914)
and B6.129P2(C)-Cx3cr1tm2.1(cre/ERT2)Jung/J (IMSR_JAX:020940).
Mice were housed socially (three to five mice per cage) in individually
ventilated cages, with ad libitum access to food and water and under
controlled conditions (22 ± 2 °C, 12:12 h light:dark cycle with light phase
from 07:00 to 19:00; 40–60% humidity).
### Middle cerebral artery occlusion
Transient focal cerebral ischemia was induced using the intraluminal
filament model of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion (MCAo) as
previously described 71 . In brief, under isoflurane anesthesia (mainte-
nance 1.5–2%), the MCA was occluded for 35 min using a 6-0 Doccol
monofilament (no. L12; Sharon, MA). Reperfusion was confirmed by
measuring the CBF in the MCA territory by transcranial laser Doppler
flowmetry (Periflux System 5010, Perimed, King Park, NY). Only animals
with CBF reduction of >85% during MCAo and CBF recovered by >80%
after 10 min of reperfusion were included in the study 71 . Rectal tempera-
ture was monitored and kept constant (mean ± SE. 37.0 ± 0.5 °C) during
the surgical procedure and in the recovery period until the animals
regained full consciousness. After the procedure, mice were housed
in a single chamber environmental incubator (Darwin Chambers,
Saint Louis, MO) at 29–32 °C for up to 7 days. This system allows mice
to maintain their body temperature post MCAo. Topical lidocaine and
bupivacaine (0.25%, 0.1 ml, transdermal) were used for pre-operative
analgesia, and buprenorphine (0.5 mg kg –1 subcutaneously every 12 h)
was used as post-operative analgesia for 72 h.
### Tamoxifen treatment
Four-week-old male Cx3cr1 CreER -tdTomato mice were treated with
tamoxifen (T5648, Sigma; 80 mg kg –1 ) dissolved in corn oil (C8267,
Sigma) by intraperitoneal injection over five consecutive days. The
mice were used for experiments 6–8 weeks after treatment.
### Cell isolation
Isolation of brain and blood cells from Sham and stroke mice was
performed at the same time of the day (08:00–09:00) for all experi-
ments to limit the effects of circadian gene expression variation 72 .
Mice were anesthetized with pentobarbital (100 mg kg –1 , intraperi-
toneal) and transcardially perfused with heparinized PBS (2 U ml –1 ).
Cerebral right cortices were visually inspected after transcardial PBS
perfusion to monitor for the presence of ischemic lesions. In brief,
either control-sham or ischemic hemispheres were separated from
the cerebellum and olfactory bulb and gently triturated using a Gentle
MACS dissociator (Miltenyi Biotec, Auburn, CA). Single-cell suspen-
sions were obtained by enzymatic digestion with papain (Neural Tissue
Dissociation Kit (P), no. 130-092-628, Miltenyi Biotec) following the
manufacturer’s instructions. Four to five hemispheres were pooled
for each experiment. In order to increase cell viability and to preserve
the transcriptional state during the generation of single-cell suspen-
sions, Brilliant Blue G (BBG, P2X7 receptor antagonist, 1 μM, Sigma),
AP-5 (25 nM, NMDA receptor blocker, Tocris) and actinomycin D (RNA
polymerase inhibitor, 5 μg ml –1 , Sigma) were added to the dissociation
solution 73,74 . Next, the cell suspension was filtered through a 70 μm
filter, resuspended in 30% Percoll (GE Healthcare)-HBSS containing
1 μM BBG, and spun for 10 min at 700×g. After gradient centrifugation,
the myelin layer was removed and the cell pellet was resuspended in 2%
FBS–PBS buffer and filtered through a 40 μm filter. Isolated cells were
washed and resuspended in 100 μl of blocking buffer per hemisphere
to proceed to FACS staining and cell sorting.
For isolation of peripheral leukocytes, mice were anesthetized
with pentobarbital (100 mg kg –1 , intraperitoneal) and 0.5 ml of blood
was collected by cardiac puncture into heparinized tubes. For each
experiment, the blood from two mice (1 ml total blood) was pooled
and erythrocytes were lysed. BBG (1 μM) and actinomycin D (5 μg ml –1 )
inhibitors were added during the isolation procedure. After erythroly-
sis, blood cells were resuspended in MACS buffer (PBS supplemented
with 2% FBS, 2 mM EDTA; 300 μl per 10 7 cells) and incubated with a
biotinylated Ter-119 antibody (Supplementary Table 2), and remaining
erythrocytes were depleted with anti-biotin microbeads according to
the manufacturer’s instructions (Miltenyi Biotec). Afterward, cells were
washed and resuspended in 0.01% BSA–PBS at a concentration of 10 5
leukocytes per ml for Drop-seq processing.
### Flow cytometry and cell sorting
For Drop-seq experiments, brain single-cell suspensions were incu-
bated with anti-CD16/CD32 antibody for 10 min at 4 °C to block
Fc receptors, followed by staining with CD45-BV510, Ly6C-FITC,
CX3CR1-PE, Ly6G-PercP-Cy5.5 and CD11b-APC-Cy7 antibodies
for 15 min at 4 °C (Supplementary Table 2). CD45 hi cells, microglia
(CD45 int CD11b + CX3CR1 + ) and ECs (CD45 – Ly6C + ) were sorted on an
Aria II cytometer (BD Biosciences) and collected in 0.5 ml of 0.01%
BSA-–PBS for Drop-seq. Flow cytometry gating strategy is described
in Supplementary Fig. 1a. Confirmation of brain damage was obtained
after evaluating the infiltration of leukocytes in the ischemic brain
(Supplementary Fig. 1b). Analytical flow cytometry was performed on
a NovoCyte Flow Cytometer (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA). The antibodies
used are described in Supplementary Table 2. Appropriate isotype
controls, ‘fluorescence minus one’ staining, and staining of negative
populations were used to establish gating parameters. Data were ana-
lyzed with FlowJo version 10.
### Generation of scRNA libraries by Drop-seq
Single-cell transcriptomes of sorted brain cells and purified blood leu-
kocytes were prepared by Drop-seq as described 75 with modifications.
Cells were resuspended in PBS–0.01% BSA to a final concentration of
100 cells per μl. Barcoded capture beads (ChemGenes Corporation,
Wilmington, MA) were resuspended in 1.8 ml lysis buffer consisting
of 4 M Guanidine HCL (ThermoFisher Scientific, Waltham, MA), 6%
Ficoll PM-400 (Sigma-Aldrich), 0.2% Sarkosyl (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis,
MO), 20 mM EDTA (ThermoFisher Scientific), 200 mM Tris pH 7.5
(Sigma-Aldrich), 50 mM DTT (Sigma-Aldrich) at a concentration of
120 beads per μl. A 5 mm diameter, 1.7 mm thick PVDF encapsulated
magnetic stir disc and rotary magnetic tumble stirrer (V&P Scientific,
San Diego, CA) was used along with a 3 ml syringe that contained the
beads in lysis buffer to keep the beads in suspension. Thereafter, single
cells and beads were encapsulated in nanoliter-scale droplets using a
Drop-seq microfluidic device coated with Aquapel (FlowJEM, Toronto,
Canada), droplet generation oil (BioRad, Hercules, CA) using flow rates
of 4 ml h –1 for cells and beads and 15 ml h –1 for oil. Each run typically
lasted about 18 min. After removing the oil, droplets were resuspended
in 30 ml of 20–22 °C room temperature 6X SSC (Promega, Madison, WI)
and 1 ml perfluorooctanol (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) and shaken
vigorously six times vertically to break the droplets. The beads were
captured by loading them into a 20 ml syringe with an attached 0.22 μm
Millex-Gv syringe filter (Millipore Sigma, Burlington, MA) as previously
described 76 . Beads were washed with 2 × 20 ml of ice-cold 6X SCC. The
syringe filter was then inverted, and a 10 ml syringe was used to flush
the beads out with 10 ml ice-cold 6X SSC repeated for a total of three
times. Beads were collected by centrifugation at 1,250xg for 2 min at
4 °C with low brake setting. The remainder of the Drop-seq protocol followed the published guidelines 75 . cDNA was amplified by PCR using
the following parameters: 95 °C (3 min); four cycles of 98 °C (20 s),
65 °C (45 s), 72 °C (3 min); 11 cycles of 98 °C (20 s), 67 °C (20 s) and 72 °C
(3 min). Libraries were quantified by quantitative PCR and checked for
quality and size distribution on a Bioanalyzer (Agilent) before sequenc-
ing on an Illumina NextSeq500 instrument using the 75 cycle High
Output v2 kit (Genomics Core Facility, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY).
Three to four libraries were multiplexed into a single run. We loaded
1.8 pM library and provided Drop-seq Custom Read1 Primer at 0.3 μM
in position seven of the reagent cartridge without PhiX spike-in using
a read configuration of 20 bases (Read1), 8 bases (Index1) and 64 bases
(Read2). Details regarding each Drop-seq run and characteristics of the
strain, sex, age and number of mice used for transcriptomic analysis
can be found in Supplementary Table 3.
### Data pre-processing
Demultiplexed fastq files were cleaned of reads that did not pass
the Illumina Passing Filter with fastq_illumina_filter (version 0.1)
and processed with the Drop-seq Tools (version 2.3.0) pipeline 77 . In
brief, each transcriptome Read2 was tagged with the cell barcode
(bases 1 to 12) and unique molecular identifier (UMI) barcode (bases
13 to 20) obtained from Read1, trimmed for sequencing adapters
and poly-A sequences, and aligned to the mouse reference genome
assembly (Ensembl GRCm38.94 release) using STAR (version 2.7.3a) 78 .
Reads aligning to exons were tagged with the respective gene symbol,
and counts of UMI-deduplicated reads per gene within each singular
cell barcode were used to build a genes x cells count matrix. The
matrix contained 40,000 cell barcodes associated with the highest
numbers of UMIs. We used the DecontX method from the R package
celda (version 1.12.0) 79 , a Bayesian hierarchical model to estimate
and remove cross-contamination from ambient RNA, to construct
a corrected genes x cells count matrix. Cells with fewer than 200
UMIs, more than 10,000 UMIs or more than 20% mitochondrial
genes were excluded. We used DoubletFinder (version 2.0.3) 80 to
computationally detect cell doublets with an expected doublet rate
of 5% (ref. 75) as an input parameter. Cells tagged with a ‘Doublet’ call
were removed. Finally, the corrected count matrices were merged
into a single matrix.
### Bioinformatic analysis and statistics
We used Seurat (version 4.1.0) 81 for downstream analysis using the
following seven steps.
1.  Counts were log-normalized for each cell using the natural
logarithm of 1 + counts per ten thousand.
2.  The 3,000 most variable genes were identified by calling
FindVariableFeatures.
3.  We next standardized expression values for each gene across all
cells by Z-score transformation (ScaleData).
4.  Principal component analysis (PCA) was performed on the
scaled variable gene matrix. The R package harmony (version
0.1.1) 82 was used to correct the matrix for batch effects. The data
from replicate experiments were combined into four sets so
that each set included a Sham, D02 and D14 experiment. We ran
harmony on the first 40 PCA dimensions with a maximum of
20 iterations.
5.  We used UMAP 83 for dimensional reduction and visualization
of harmony-derived embeddings in a two-dimensional space
with preset parameters by invoking the RunUMAP function
in Seurat, using the 40 first components of the harmony
reduction.
6.  We used the Louvain algorithm as implemented in FindClusters
with a resolution setting of 1.2 for the brain and 0.7 for the
peripheral blood dataset to perform graph-based clustering on
the neighbor graph that was constructed with the FindNeigh-
bors function call on harmony-derived embeddings.
7.  After clustering, we used the model-based analysis of single-cell
transcriptomics (MAST) algorithm (version 1.05) 84 in the
FindAllMarkers function to find DEGs in each cluster based on
the log-normalized expression matrix with parameters only.
pos = T, min.pct = 0.1, logfc.threshold = log2(1.5), max.cells.per.
ident = 2,000.
We performed unsupervised cell type annotation using the Sin-
gleR package (version 2.2.0) 85 with ImmGen 86 , BrainImmuneAtlas 87
and Tabula Muris 88 as reference datasets (see Supplementary Fig. 2).
Assignments were further manually validated by scoring the top ten
DEGs for the presence of canonical marker genes for each cell type.
On these bases, we assigned the metacells to microglia, BAMs, MdCs,
granulocytes, mast cells, DCs, T cells, NK cells, B cells, ECs, vascular
mural cells, epithelial-like cells, and oligodendrocyte clusters for the
brain dataset, and monocytes, granulocytes, eosinophils–basophils,
DCs, T cells, NK cells, B cells, various precursors and one unclassified
cluster for the peripheral blood dataset.
To achieve further resolution of cell states, individual count matri-
ces were generated based on the initial cluster designation, and steps
1–7 were repeated with the following modifications: mitochondrial,
ribosomal and gene model (Gm) annotated genes were removed; step
2, 2,000 variable features were selected; step 4, harmony was run on
the first 15 PCA dimensions; step 5, The ‘min.dist’ parameter in the
RunUMAP function was set to 0.1 for clusters with more than 2,500
cells; step 6, FindClusters was performed at a resolution of 0.4. DEGs
with a false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05 were ranked by their log 2 (fold
change), and z-scores were computed on the average gene expression
across clusters for visualization in heatmaps.
### Cluster pruning and metacell exclusion
After subclustering, we detected several clusters within the brain data-
set with high expression of microglial (Hexb, Siglech, P2ry12) marker
genes together with either granulocyte (S100a8, S100a9, Cxcr2), DC
(Cd209a, Xcr1, Ccr7), T cell (Trac, Trbc2, Cd3d), NK cell (Nkg7, Gzma) or
macrophage (Mrc1, Lyve1) genes. Although we cannot exclude that this
is caused by biological processes such as transcriptomic changes or
engulfment of living cells by microglia as previously reported for neu-
trophils and lymphocytes 89 , we opted to exclude these cells as poten-
tial cell doublets. Therefore, we manually removed 1,730 microglia,
287 DCs, 145 BAMs, 70 granulocytes, 65 T cells, and 41 NK metacells.
After exclusion of these cells, we reran steps 1–7 on the main dataset
and performed de novo subclustering as described above.
### Analysis of combined young and aged brain datasets
The dataset from aged (17–20 month) mice brains were preprocessed
as described above. Cell identities in the aged mice brain dataset were
assigned using the FindTransferAnchors and TransferData functions
in Seurat using the young brain dataset as a reference. Seurat objects
from young and aged mice were merged into a single object by retain-
ing all cells of the aged brains and randomly down-sampling the young
brain dataset. This resulted in balanced cell numbers among cell type
classes in both datasets (Supplementary Table 4). Raw count data were
processed as described above. The harmony algorithm was run on the
first 40 principal components of the PCA. UMAP was computed on the
first 40 harmony dimensions. Differential gene expression (Fig. 7e) was
computed with limma-voom (version 3.50.0) 90 with default parameters
after ‘pseudobulk’ conversion of individual experiments using the
aggregateAcrossCells function of the scuttle R package (version 1.10.3) 91
following the removal of mitochondrial, ribosomal, hemoglobin, gene
model (Gm) annotated genes, and the sex-specific genes (Tsix, Xist).
### Cell trajectory inference
We conducted the trajectory inference analysis using the dyno R pack-
age (version 0.1.2) 92 . Brain and peripheral blood datasets were merged and randomly downsampled to a maximum of 1,000 cells per cluster
and treatment. The merged dataset was subset to contain either micro-
glia, blood monocytes and brain MdCs, or blood neutrophil and brain
granulocyte clusters. The trajectory inference was performed on the
2,000 most variable genes selected with the Seurat FindVariableFea-
tures function. For granulocytes and for monocytes and MdCs, blood
granulocytes and monocytes were designated as the starting popula-
tion, respectively. For microglia, the starting population consisted of all
microglia from Sham brains. The most appropriate trajectory inference
method (Slingshot) 93 was selected based on dyno (guidelines_shiny
function) recommendations. UMAP was calculated on the first 15 PCA
dimensions and trajectories were visualized in a two-dimensional space
by the plot_dimred function of the dyno package.
### CellChat analysis
Cell–cell interaction networks were constructed using the CellChat R
package (version 1.6.1) 94 with a custom mouse ligand–receptor interac-
tion database that contained combined entries of the curated RNAMag-
net 95 and CellChat databases. In brief, the processed Seurat object was
split by treatment into Sham, D02 and D14 datasets. Then, cell clusters
were randomly downsampled to contain no more than 1,000 cells. The
matrices were used as input for the createCellChat function and pro-
cessed using its standard pipeline. Differentially expressed genes and
interactions were identified in the CellChat object via identifyOverEx-
pressedGenes and identifyOverExpressedInteractions, respectively. The
CellChat algorithm was then run to calculate the probable interactions
at the cell-to-cell level using computeCommunProb with ‘truncated-
Mean’ as the method for computing the average gene expression after
removing 15% of observations from each end of the gene expression
vector (parameter, trim = 0.15). The filterCommunication function was
used to filter out interactions with less than 20 cells in each cluster.
Communication probabilities on the signaling pathway level were then
calculated by invoking the computeCommunProbPathway function.
Ligand–receptor interaction probabilities were visualized by using
netVisual_aggregate and netVisual_individual. For joint analysis of dif-
ferent group datasets (Sham, D02, D14), CellChat objects were merged,
and compareInteractions was used to compare the total number and
strength of interactions between treatments followed by the rankNet
function for visualization.
### Modular score calculation and visualization
The AddModuleScore function in the Seurat package was used to calcu-
late the functional signatures of each cell cluster. The type I interferon
response score was calculated using ISGs as previously reported 96 .
DAM and DIM scores were calculated using the gene list reported
previously 19 . Additional module scores were calculated for foamy
macrophages 32 , stroke-associated macrophages 6 and monocytes 97 .
All marker genes used for score calculation can be found in Supple-
mentary Table 5. Module scores were visualized in R using the ggplot2
package (version 3.3.6) 98 . Data are expressed as median interquartile
range (box plots).
### Correlation plots
Cluster-wise average gene expression was calculated with the Avera-
geExpression function of the Seurat package. The cor function in R was
used to construct a Spearman correlation matrix of gene expression
between blood monocyte and brain MdC clusters. The correlation
matrix was visualized with the corrplot function of the corrplot pack-
age (version 0.92) 99 .
### Combined analysis of young and aged brain scRNA-seq data
Cell identities were assigned by aligning both datasets in the
high-dimensional space and projecting cluster annotations from
the young dataset onto the aged dataset essentially as previously
described 81 and by using SingleR to adjudicate cell identities using
the young dataset as a reference. For each cell, the maximal correla-
tion score obtained by the two methods was used to assign the cell
identity. The young dataset was downsampled to contain no more
than 5,000 cells per treatment, and both datasets were merged and
processed using steps 1–6 as outlined above (‘Bioinformatic analysis
and statistics’). Differential gene expression between aged and young
mice was calculated for each cell cluster using the MAST algorithm
of the FindMarkers function in Seurat with preset parameters after
excluding mitochondrial, ribosomal, hemoglobin, sex-specific (Tsix,
Xist) and gene model (Gm) annotated genes. Genes were considered
differentially regulated if they showed higher than twofold change in
expression level and an FDR < 0.05.
### Human–mouse comparison and pathway enrichment analysis
We searched the GEO database (query term: stroke[title] AND ‘homo
sapiens’[organism] AND ‘expression profiling’; database status date:
05/28/2023), which identified six datasets that included peripheral
blood mRNA analysis (GSE122709, GSE58294, GSE16561, GSE22255,
GSE37587 and GSE199435). Only GSE122709 included acute and suba-
cute time points after ischemic stroke and controls matched for age,
sex and vascular risk factors including body mass index, hypertension
and hyperlipidemia, and was therefore used for analysis 63 . We deter-
mined DEGs between control, acute (post-stroke day 1) and subacute
(post-stroke day 7) samples using the quasi-likelihood F-test in edgeR
(version 3.42.4) 100 . We performed active-subnetwork-oriented path-
way enrichment analysis on DEGs with an FDR < 0.05 and an abso-
lute fold change of >2 using the pathfindR package (version 2.3.0) 101
with Biogrid 102 as the protein interaction database and KEGG 103 as
the pathway database, which was filtered to remove human disease
terms. Next, we adjusted the mouse peripheral blood scRNA-seq
dataset to match the cellular composition of human samples. The
cellular composition was inferred after deconvoluting the gene
count matrices included in GSE122709 using robust linear models
as implemented in the ABIS web tool 104 , which contains a signature
expression matrix of 29 immune cell types obtained by RNA-seq
of flow-sorted human peripheral blood leukocytes from 13 human
donors. We adjusted the composition of T cells, NK cells, B cells,
granulocytes, DCs and monocytes by experimental condition to
match the average cellular composition of the human dataset in
control, acute and subacute stroke patients. This compositionally
adjusted dataset was processed for DEGs between conditions (Sham,
D02, D14) using MAST as described above. DEGs with an FDR of <0.05
and an absolute fold change of >1.2 were used to query the KEGG
database using pathfindeR. Significant KEGG terms (FDR < 0.05)
from the human and mouse analysis were combined and visualized
for overlapping terms using the eulerr package (version 7.0.0) 105 . For
visualization of the top regulated KEGG terms, we pruned the list of
KEGG terms by calculating a similarity matrix of terms by overlapping
genes as implemented in the term_similarity_from_KEGG function
of the simplifyEnrichment package (version 1.10.0) 106 . We used the
obtained similarity matrix to cluster similar terms into term groups,
invoking the reduceSimMatrix function of the rrvgo package (ver-
sion 1.12.2) 107 . Terms were ranked by their enrichment score, and all
terms with an enrichment score larger than the median enrichment
score were selected for visualization. Results were visualized with
the ggplot2 package. To validate our approach, we leveraged the data
from the GEO GSE32529 dataset 108 , which contains RNA array data of
peripheral blood from mice undergoing MCAo 24 h before sample col-
lection. Samples from naive mice (GSM805772–GSM805777) and 24 h
stroke mice (GSM805853–GSM805856) were included in the analysis.
Cell types were inferred using CibersortX 109 with the mouse-specific
ImmuCC annotation matrix, which provides a matrix-weighted score
to identify 25 different immune cell populations 110 . Adjustments of
cellular composition, DGE and pathway enrichment analysis were
conducted as described above for GSE122709.

### Brain histology
Mice were deeply anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and tran-
scardially perfused with ice-cold PBS (30 ml) followed by 4% para-
formaldehyde in PBS (100 ml). Brains were dissected, post-fixed in
4% paraformaldehyde overnight, dehydrated in 30% PBS–sucrose
solution for 1–2 days and then frozen using dry ice. Frozen brains were
then embedded in Epredia M-1 Embedding Matrix (ThermoFisher Sci-
entific) and cut in coronal sections using a cryostat (Leica CM3050S,
Mannheim, Germany). The sections were mounted on slides for either
IF downstream applications or RNA-FISH.
For IF, coronal 18 μm thick sections were permeabilized with 0.5%
Triton X-100 (Sigma) in PBS (PBST), blocked with 5% normal donkey
serum (NDS) in 0.1% PSBT for 1 h and incubated overnight at 4 °C with
primary antibodies (Supplementary Table 2) in 1% NDS–0.1% PBST.
After overnight incubation, sections were washed three times for 5 min
with 0.1% PBST and incubated with secondary antibodies (Supplemen-
tary Table 2) in 1% NDS–0.1% PBST for 1 h at room temperature. Sections
were washed with 0.1% PBST twice for 5 min, followed by a single 5 min
wash in 0.1% PBST–DAPI (1:100, 12.5 ng μl –1 ), mounted with FluorSave
Reagent (Millipore) and visualized using either the Olympus IX83 or
Leica TCS SP8 confocal microscopes.
RNA-FISH was performed using RNAscope Multiplex Fluorescent
Kit v2 (ACD-Bio-Techne, Newark, CA) following the manufacturer’s
instructions. In brief, 10 μm thickness sections were processed using
RNAscope hydrogen peroxide, followed by boiling Target Retrieval
solution, dehydrated by 100% ethanol and incubated in Protease
III solution. Then, tissue sections were hybridized with the target
probes (Supplementary Table 2) for 2 h at 40 °C, followed by a series
of signal amplification and washing steps. Hybridization signals were
detected by fluorescent signal using peroxidase-based Tyramide Signal
Amplification-Plus Fluorescein or TSA Plus Cyanine 5 (PerkinElmer,
Shelton, CT). Finally, the sections were counterstained with DAPI and
coverslipped using ProLong Gold Antifade Mountant. Images were
acquired using either an epi-fluorescent (Olympus IX83, Waltham,
MA) or a confocal (Leica) microscope. Images were analyzed using Fiji
(version 2.14.0/1.54f) 111 . When FISH and IF staining were combined, the
slides were washed in RNAscope wash buffer after the development of
Tyramide Signal and then IF was sequentially performed as described
above but skipping the permeabilization step.
### Measurement of infarct volume
As described in detail elsewhere 71 , blinded assessment of infarct vol-
ume, corrected for swelling, was quantified 24–48 h after MCAo using
Nissl stain on twelve 30 μm thick coronal brain sections and Fiji analysis
software.
### Statistic and reproducibility
Experimental groups were defined by the number of elapsed days after
surgery or/and by the genotype. No statistical methods were used to
predetermine sample size; this was determined based on previous
studies 66,112 or pilot experiments. For scRNA transcriptomic analy-
sis, a total of n = 83 young male mice, n = 4 aged male mice and n = 12
aged female mice were used (Supplementary Table 5). Micrographs
in Figs. 1f,i–m, 2f–i, 3j,l,m and 4f, Extended Data Figs. 2 and 3g and
Supplementary Fig. 6c,d show representative examples from experi-
ments performed in at least three mice that underwent either 2 days
or 14 days of MCAo and one mouse that underwent Sham surgery.
The non-lesioned hemisphere was also used as an internal control for
the examined injured hemisphere. Each stain was repeated at least
two times using serial brain coronal sections. Characteristics of the
Cx3cr1-CreER het Td het mice used for these IF experiments are provided
in Supplementary Table 5 (n = 9 young male mice). Statistical analysis
on infarct volume, changes in CBF and survival (Supplementary Fig. 14)
was performed using GraphPad Prism (version 10). Statistical analysis
of module scores (Fig. 6g) was conducted using rstatix (version 0.7.2) 113 .Statistical tests, P values and sample sizes are indicated in figure panels
and figure legends as appropriate. Differences were considered statisti-
cally significant at P < 0.05.


图例部分：

Fig. 1 | Microglia show altered transcriptional states through the acute and
subacute phases of stroke. a, Left panel: UMAP of merged Sham, D02 and D14
microglial single-cell transcriptomes reveals eight clusters; right panel: UMAP
of overlaid time points reveals high segregation of microglial clusters among
Sham, D02 and D14 groups. b, Feature plots depicting single-cell gene expression
of individual genes characterizing homeostatic and activated microglia. Scale
bars represent log normalized gene expression. c, Bar graph showing relative
frequencies of each cluster across Sham, D02 and D14 groups. d, Heatmap
displaying expression of the top ten upregulated genes in each microglial cluster.
Scale bar represents z-score of average gene expression (log). e, Pseudotime
analysis of microglial clusters showing transitional trajectories from Sham Mg1
cluster to either Sham–Mg2, or D02 Mg4–Mg5 clusters, or D14 Mg3, Mg6–Mg7
clusters. f, Representative fluorescence images of the cerebral hemisphere
after Sham surgery or at D02 or D14 after MCAo in Cx3cr1 CreERT2 :R26tdTomato
mice. Microglia were identified as Td + cells (red). Images show that the number
of microglia decreased in the ischemic core (white dashed outline) at D02
whereas its number increased at D14. g, UMAPs of individual marker genes that
characterize ischemic microglial clusters. Scale bars represent log normalized
gene expression. h, Diagram of a brain coronal section indicating anatomical
regions where the images in i–m were acquired. i, Immunofluorescence images
showing Ki67 (white) expression by Cx3cr1-Td + (red) Iba1 + (blue) microglia 2 days
after MCAo. Arrowheads indicate Ki67 staining. j, RNAscope FISH and IF images
validating Cst7 (white) expression in D02 Cx3cr1-Td + microglia (Td + , red); nuclei
are DAPI + (blue). k,l, FISH images showing Cxcl10 (white) expression in D02 (k)
and D14 (l) Cx3cr1-Td + microglia (Td + , red); nuclei are DAPI + (blue). m, IF images
showing IGF1 (white) expression by Cx3cr1-Td + (red) MHCII – (green) microglia
14 days after MCAo.

Fig. 2 | Transcriptional changes of BAMs after stroke. a, UMAP analysis of
merged Sham, D02 and D14 BAM transcriptomes showed five clusters (left
panel); UMAP of overlaid time points reveals overlapping clusters among Sham,
D02 and D14 groups, except for BAM4, which is confined to D02 (right panel).
b, UMAP plots depicting expression of individual marker genes for BAM (Mrc1,
Cd36), meningeal and perivascular BAM (Lyve1), choroid plexus BAM (H2-Ab1)
and activated meningeal and perivascular BAM (Ccl8, Igf1). Scale bars represent
log of normalized gene expression. c, Bar graph showing relative frequencies
of BAM clusters across Sham, D02 and D14 groups. d, Heatmap displaying
expression of the top ten upregulated genes in each BAM cluster. Scale bar
represents z-score of average gene expression (log). e, Graphical representation
of brain coronal section indicating anatomical regions where the images in f–i
were acquired. f, RNAscope FISH images of brain cortical areas showing Mrc1
expression (white) in resident macrophages (Td + , red) on the brain surface and
around vessels of Cx3cr1-Td + mice 2 days after Sham surgery (Sham). Nuclei are
stained with DAPI (blue). g,i, IF images validating IGF1 (white) expression by pial
BAM (Td + , red) (g) in Sham Cx3cr1-Td + mice and in perivascular macrophages
(i) of the ischemic brain at D14. h, Representative IF image of a whole brain
section from a Cx3cr1-Td + mouse subjected to 14 days of MCAo (D14), showing
MHCII + cells (white, binary mask) localization and nuclear DAPI staining (blue)
(left panel); IF images of magnified areas of the choroid plexus showing MHCII
expression (white) by ChMp (Td + , red) (right panel).

Fig. 3 | Inflammatory blood monocytes give rise to infiltrating brain MdCs
after stroke. a, UMAP plot of blood monocytes in Sham or D02 and D14 after
MCAo. b, UMAP plots depicting expression of marker genes Cd36 (patrolling
monocytes), Ly6c2 (inflammatory monocytes) and Ccr2 (pan-monocyte). Scale
bars represent log normalized gene expression. c, Bar graph showing relative
frequencies of monocyte clusters across treatment groups. d, Heatmap of
the top ten upregulated genes in each monocyte cluster. Scale bar represents
z-score of average gene expression (log). e, UMAP plot of brain MdCs across
groups. f, Trajectory analysis of peripheral blood (PB) monocyte and brain
(Br) Mdc subclusters. Each point is a cell and is colored according to its cluster
identity shown in a and e. The inferred trajectory shows the transition from
blood inflammatory monocyte clusters Mo1 and Mo2 to fully differentiated brain
macrophages MdC1 and MdC6. g, Bar graph showing relative frequencies of MdC
clusters across treatment groups. h, Heatmap of the top ten upregulated genes
in each MdC cluster. Scale bar represents z-score of average gene expression
(log). i, UMAP plots of marker genes for each MdC cluster. Scale bars represent
log normalized gene expression. j, FISH–IF image of Arg1 (white) expression in
Cx3cr1-Td + mice D02 after stroke. Top panel, left: Arg1 expression (binary mask)
in a whole brain section co-stained for DAPI (blue). Top panel, right and bottom:
images of magnified areas a and b showing localization of Arg1 in Cx3cr1-Td –
and MHCII – cells. Bottom panel, right: orthogonal projection showing Arg1
expression in an adjacent cell to a perivascular macrophage (Td + , red). k, Diagram
of a coronal brain section indicating regions where the images in l and m were
acquired. l, FISH–IF images of Cxcl10 expression (white) in MdC (Td – , F4-80 +
cells, yellow arrow) and microglia (Td + , red; F4-80 + , green) of D14 Cx3cr1-Td +
mice; nuclei are DAPI + (blue). m, IF images in D14 Cx3cr1-Td + mice showing IGF1
expression (white) in MdC (Td – , F4-80 + , green) and microglia (Td + , red).

Fig. 4 | EC transcriptional changes and Igf1r signaling after stroke. a, Left
panel: UMAP analysis of merged Sham, D02 and D14 EC transcriptomes identifies
nine clusters; right panel: UMAP of overlaid time points shows dissociation of
EC2 cluster at D02 and general overlap of all the other clusters across Sham,
D02 and D14 groups. b, UMAP plots depicting single-cell gene expression of
individual marker genes for capillary (Car4, Fosb), arterial (Stmn2, Clu) and
venular (Lrg1, Ackr1) ECs and for the endothelial receptors Ecscr and Igf1r. Scale
bars represent log of normalized gene expression. c, Heatmap displaying scaled
differential expression of the top ten upregulated genes in each EC cluster. Scale
bar represents z-score of average gene expression (log). d, Bar graph showing
relative frequencies of EC clusters across Sham, D02 and D14 groups. e, Chord
plots showing CellChat inferred ligand–receptor interactions between Igf1r and
Igf1 in Sham, D02 and D14 stroke mice. The strength of the interaction is indicated
by the edge thickness. The color of the chord matches the cell cluster color
sending the signal (Igf1). The number of cell recipient clusters (Igfr1) and their
weight in the interactions is indicated by the color-matched stacked bar next to
each sender. f, RNAscope FISH combined with IF of Lrg1. Left panel: overview
of Lrg1 expression (binary mask, white) in a D02 whole brain section co-stained
for DAPI (blue), showing high upregulation of Lrg1 in the ischemic hemisphere
Right panel: magnified images of brain cortical areas showing Lrg1 (white)
colocalization with the EC marker CD31 (magenta) but not with the capillary
marker Car4 (yellow). Nuclei are stained with DAPI (blue).

Fig. 5 | Granulocyte transcriptional changes through ischemia–reperfusion.
a,d, UMAP plots of peripheral blood neutrophil (a) and brain granulocyte
(d) transcriptomes by studied time point (Sham, D02, D14). Six clusters were
identified in each dataset (Neu1–Neu6 and Gran1–Gran6, respectively).
b,e, Bar graph showing relative frequencies of peripheral blood neutrophil
(b) and brain granulocyte (e) clusters across Sham, D02 and D14 groups.
c,f, Heatmap displaying differential expression of the top ten upregulated genes
in each peripheral blood neutrophil (c) and brain granulocyte (f) cluster. Scale
bars represent z-score of average gene expression (log). g, Slingshot trajectory
of combined peripheral blood neutrophils and brain granulocytes showing
predicted cluster transitions. Each point is a cell and is colored according to its
cluster identity. h, Top panels: log normalized expression of single genes plotted
as a function of pseudotime. Dot plots show expression levels of top cluster genes
of combined peripheral blood neutrophil (PB) and brain granulocyte datasets
along ischemic–reperfusion pseudotime. Each dot represents the expression
levels (log) for each gene in a cell and is colored according to the group. Lines
show the smoothed expression values obtained by generalized additive model
fitting. Bottom panel: the top 100 genes that specifically covary with pseudotime
were identified using generalized additive models and the log normalized
expression values were plotted along the pseudotime axis. The location of genes plotted above is indicated.

Fig. 6 | Comparison of the cellular composition and transcriptome
signatures of brain and blood cells in aged and young stroke mice. a, UMAP
plot representing color-coded brain cell clusters identified in aged and young
single-cell transcriptomes. Tc, T cells; Bc, B cells; MC, vascular mural cells; Epi,
epithelial-like cells; OD, oligodendrocytes. b, UMAP overlay of three color-coded
time points of combined aged and young brain single-cell transcriptomes. c, Bar
graph of relative frequencies of infiltrating peripheral immune cells in the brain
across Sham, D02 and D14 groups. d, Bar graph showing relative frequencies of Mg,
MdC, Gran, Tc and EC clusters in either aged or young stroke mice. e, Scatterplot
comparing stroke-induced differential gene expression (DGE) versus Sham in
young and aged mice at D02 and D14. Genes with log 2 (FC) of >±1 and FDR < 0.05 are
highlighted in color. FC, fold change. The number of differentially regulated genes
in each subgroup is indicated in the corresponding subquadrants. f, Lower panel:
upset plot of DGE results showing overlapping and age-specific (A, aged; Y, young)
DEGs in response to either acute (D02) or subacute (D14) stroke. Upper panel:
bar graph indicating relative cell cluster contribution to the upset gene groups.
g, Violin plots of ISG module scores in aged and young brain cell clusters. The
dot shows the median value. Wilcoxon rank-sum test with Bonferroni correction
was used to test for significance. P values of <0.05 are plotted. Statistical details
can be found in Source Data Fig. 6. h, Density plots in the UMAP space showing
the expression of Ifnb1 in the brain of young and aged mice. Scale bar represents
densities based on kernel density estimation of gene expression.

Fig. 7 | Comparison of post-stroke transcriptomic profiles between
mouse and human blood leukocytes by KEGG pathway analysis. a, The
analysis strategy included deconvolution of the human bulk-RNA-seq dataset
(GSE122709), the ‘humanizing’ of the mouse blood to reflect the cellular
composition in human stroke samples, determination of differential gene
expression (DGE) and KEGG pathway analysis using pathfindeR. b, Euler
diagrams showing distinct and shared enriched KEGG pathways (FDR < 0.05)
between mouse and human peripheral blood leukocytes at acute and subacute
time points after stroke. c, Top-ranked KEGG pathways that are shared between
the human and mouse datasets. The color scale represents −log 10 (FDR) and the
point size depicts the enrichment score.

Extended Data Fig. 1 | Single-cell transcriptomic profiling of mouse brain
and blood cells after transient focal cerebral ischemia. a, Schematic
representation of Drop-Seq scRNA-seq pipeline used to analyze brain and blood
cells isolated from either control surgery (Sham) or stroke mice 2 and 14 days
(D02, D14) after injury. Brain cells were dissociated by enzymatic digestion with
papain. Infiltrating leukocytes (CD45 hi ), microglia (Mg) and endothelial cells (EC)
were isolated by flow cytometry sorting. Blood leukocytes were purified after
erythrocyte removal. Brain and blood single cell suspensions were subjected
to Drop-Seq, sequencing and analysis. b, c, Left: UMAP plot representing
color-coded cell clusters identified in merged brain (b) or blood (c) single-cell
transcriptomes; Middle: UMAP of 3 color-coded time point overlay of brain
(b) or blood (c) single-cell transcriptomes; Right: bar graph showing relative
frequencies of each cell type across Sham, D02 and D14 groups of either brain
(b) or blood (c) identified cell type clusters. d, Left: UMAP plot of the combined
brain (Br) and blood (PB) dataset showing cell clustering similarities between
brain and blood Gran, Tc, Bc and brain myeloid cells (BAM, MdC, DC) with blood
monocytes (left). Right: Same UMAP plot annotated by tissue. Border-associated
macrophages (BAM), monocyte-derived cells (MdC), granulocytes (Gran),
mast cells (MaC), dendritic cells (DC), T cells (Tc), NK cells (NK), B cells (Bc),
vascular mural cells (MC), epithelial-like cells (Epi), oligodendrocytes (OD);
Eosinophils-Basophils (EosBas); Monocytes (Mo); hematopoietic precursors
(pre); unclassified (UC).

Extended Data Fig. 2 | Histological validation of microglia marker genes
(related to Fig. 1). a, left: Representative immunofluorescence (IF) image of a
whole brain section from a Cx3cr1 CreERT2 :R26Tdomato mouse subjected to 2 days
of MCAo (D02) showing the distribution of Ki67 + cells (white, binary mask) and
nuclear DAPI staining (blue); middle and right panels: IF images of magnified
areas showing Ki67 expression by Td + (red) Iba1 + (green) microglia in the peri-
infarct area. Arrowheads indicate Ki67 staining. The border of the ischemic
lesion is indicated by yellow dash outline and was traced based on DAPI, Iba1
and Tomato labels. b, top: RNAscope fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)
validating Cst7 (white) expression in D02 Td + microglia (red). Left: Representative
whole brain section image of Cst7 expression (binary mask) and nuclear DAPI
staining; Middle and right panels: FISH-IF images of magnified areas showing
upregulation of Cst7 in microglial cells surrounding the ischemic lesion.
Bottom: FISH-IF images validating Cst7 (white) expression in D14 mice. Left:
Representative whole brain section image of Cst7 expression (binary mask) and
nuclear DAPI staining; Middle and right top panels: FISH-IF images of magnified
areas showing upregulation of Cst7 in microglia (Iba1 + , green) surrounding the
ischemic lesion. c, FISH-IF images validating Cxcl10 (white) expression in Cx3cr1-
Td + mice 2 and 14 days after MCAo. Left (D02): Representative whole brain section
image of Cxcl10 expression (binary mask) and images of magnified areas showing
localization of Cxcl10 in microglial cells (Td + , red) outside of the ischemic lesion.
Right (D14): Representative whole brain section image of Cxcl10 expression
(binary mask) and images of magnified areas showing localization of Cxcl10
in microglial cells (Td + , red) on the border of the ischemic lesion. d, IF images
validating IGF1 (white) expression by Cx3cr1-Td + (red) MHCII – (green) microglia
14 days after MCAo in the ischemic region.

Extended Data Fig. 3 | Cellular composition and transcriptomics of brain
dendritic cells. a, UMAP plots of brain dendritic cells (DC) transcriptomes
for each studied time point identifies 9 clusters (DC1-9). b, Bar graph showing
relative frequencies of DC clusters across Sham, D02 and D14 groups. c, UMAP
of 3 color-coded time point overlay of brain DC. Classification of clusters into
DC subtypes is based on marker gene expression (d,f): cDC1 (Xcr1, Clec9a),
cDC2 (Cd209a, Sirpa), monocyte derived-DC (moDC; Sirpa, Ms4a7), migratory
(migDC; Ccr7), and plasmacytoid DC (pDC; Ly6d, Ccr9). d, UMAP plots displaying
expression of marker genes for each identified DC cluster in the brain. Scale bars
represent log of normalized gene expression. e, Heatmap displaying differential
expression of the top 10 upregulated genes in each DC cluster. Scale bar
represents Z-score of average gene expression (log). f, Flow cytometry analysis
validating brain cDC1 (XCR1 + ), cDC2 (CD172a + ) and migDC (CCR7 + ) subtypes
identified by scRNA-seq after stroke. g, Left: FISH of Cd209a (red) expression
in the brain, combined with IF for Iba1 (green) and nuclear staining with
DAPI (blue), showing Cd209a + Iba1 + cells around blood vessel (dotted line).
Cx: cortex; St: striatum. Right: Flow cytometry analysis showing double positive
CD209a + CD172a + DC (CD11c + MHCII + ).

xtended Data Fig. 4 | Cellular composition and transcriptomics of brain
lymphoid cells. a, UMAP plots of brain lymphoid cells (Tc) transcriptomes
for each studied time point identifies 7 clusters (Tc1-7). b, Bar graph showing
relative frequencies of Tc clusters across Sham, D02 and D14 groups. c, Heatmap
displaying expression of the top 10 upregulated genes in each Tc cluster.
Scale bar represents Z-score of average gene expression (log). d, UMAP of
merged Sham, D02 and D14 Tc transcriptomes. Classification of clusters into
T cell types is based on marker gene expression (c,e): CD4 (Cd3d,Cd4), Treg
(Cd3d,Cd4,Foxp3), CD8 (Cd3d, CD8b1), NKT (Cd3d, Gzma), γδT (Cd3d, Trdc),
interferon stimulated T cells (ISG; Cd3d, Ifit3), innate lymphoid cells type 2 (ILC2;
Gata3, Hes1) and proliferating T cells (prol; Cd3d, Top2a). e, Density plots in the
UMAP space showing the expression of selected marker genes used for lymphoid
cell type identification. Scale bars represent densities based on kernel density
estimation of gene expression using. f, Chord plot showing cell-cell interactions
between Cxcr3 and Cxcl10 in grouped Sham, D02 and D14 stroke mice. The
strength of the interaction is indicated by the edge thickness. The color of the
chord matches the cell cluster color sending the signal (Cxcl10). The number of
cell recipient clusters (Cxcr3) and their weight in the interactions is indicated by
the color-matched stacked bar next to each sender.

'''
任务描述： 请根据描述详细讲解Fig.1a的结果和图例描述（不要用比喻的方式）,并根据结果和图例描述讲解完成这个图例的目的,输出格式如下：

    结果描述：
    图例描述：
    关键结论:
    分析目的：




